Line will come back in this short video we're going to look at insert into and that's a sequel Commander
let's says well insert data into a table let's remove what we did in the last video.
And remember we've got two tables one for videos and one for users.
Let's first insert some data into our users table and if we try to insert data into a video table remember
because it is a foreign key it would not let us and I'll show you exactly how in a moment most of us
insert one row into our users table.
So I'm going to do insert and then into.
And we have to specify which table we're putting data into.
And once again you can say public and don't use those.
But if you're using the public which is a default schema and you can omit public in just a users if
you prefer public users nevertheless it's a good practice to type in public domain users.
Make sure you specify the schema that's a good thing to do.
And then after insert into political users we open and close brackets and inside the brackets we say
the columns that we are going to put the data into.
So here it's going to be ID and name and that's the columns that we've got.
And then I'm going to type in a new line but remember this is optional values.
And here go once again between brackets the values that we put in it.
So the idea is an integer which means that it has to be a number and the name is a string a character
varying which means it has to be between quotation marks.
And I'm going to type maybe Smith there.
Let's assume the name is a username maybe not a very good name for the column but nevertheless
when we do this and we press play it says one row affected and then it gives us the time and all that
stuff.
So now let's select start from public domain users and we get the ID 1 and the name there.
OK.
Now let's insert into public domain users but without specifying the columns that we're putting in.
So I'm going to change that into a public that uses values and then inside brackets to Ralph Smith You
can see I'm not very good at coming up with surnames.
So what do you think is going to happen in this in this case.
Do you think this is going to work maybe give an error.
Well let's find out.
As you can see it says quite written successfully.
Wonder affected and when we select staff from public users we have Ralph there as well.
So what does this mean.
Well it means that the insert into
does not need the column names there and if the values we are inserting match all of the columns in
the table.
So what we've got here is ID and name.
And then what we've got here is three and my name in this case because three and the name are the Row
other columns that are on the table and there's only these two columns we can omit the columns specifying
the columns is necessary when we want to insert data not in all the columns of the table.
So for example say we had here a phone number and the phone number column that is.
And that can be empty.
Then we should specify the three and the three rows the three columns.
And so if we have a phone number them and we would have to specify the columns that we want to put data
into because if we don't then we would have to put in the phone number down here.
That would be valid.
This would not be valid.
OK.
So that's essentially when you can skip the column names in there.
And when you cannot.
So if the values are all of the columns in the table then you don't have to specify the columns.
But if you want to put data only into some of the columns then you have to specify the call.
OK so now let's select start from videos and as you can see it's empty.
And let's insert some data into videos.
So insert into public adult videos.
And now remember that we can specify We call them names or we can choose to skip them if we're going
to put them all.
So in this case I'm going to skip them.
It would be values.
And then here we would put in the ID of the video then the ID of the user.
And finally the name of the video so I'm sure you can do that.
The first one would be number one for the ID of the video then it would be ID number 10.
I'm going to put in something invalid in here just to show you.
And finally the name of the video test.
So what do you think is going to happen in this case.
When I when I try and do this.
Is that going to be OK.
Is Pocho sequel going to allow me to enter at 10 even though we don't have 10 users.
We don't have a user with ID 10.
The answer is no it is not going to let me.
And I think this is actually not the right message.
There we go.
And sometimes it does like to to bug out and do weird things.
But nevertheless this is the right error message.
It says insert or update on table videos violate foreign key constraint the key user ID 10 is not present
in table users.
What it's saying is you've tried to tell me that this video belongs to user with ID.
But such a user does not exist.
So naturally that cannot be.
This must be wrong.
And indeed it is.
So if we instead type 2 which is one of our users then we press play then that works and then we can
do so Nexstar from public videos and then we get our test video.
Remember now that we have this foreign key and primary key relationship between user ID and the users
we can do select stuff from videos inner join public domain users on public domain users ID quolls public
don't videos stopped user ID and then we can get the name of the user who uploaded this video as we've
seen in the past.
So this is how you would insert values into the tables remembering the a foreign key constraint is going
to limit what you can insert based on the data that is on the other table.
Now something that you can do in things like My sequel is do something like insert into users and then
just see the name.
And this should be public don't use it but it doesn't really matter.
It's not case sensitive public user's name.
And then I would like to be able to see values.
John Adams
Now this is not correct but what I would like this to do is to give John Adams the next available number
as an ID and that would be kind of an all too incremental ID which is quite popular in my sequel.
So I'm gonna come down and say select stuff from public don't use them.
So ideally what would happen if I execute this is that John Adams would be added were ID number three
.
However if I run it then it gives me an error because by default what it does is it puts null in the
ID.
So it's a type it tries to put in No.
And John Adams.
And then because ID is a primary key and it cannot be null the primary key cannot be null and then the
erroneous has no value in column Id violet not an old constraint.
So basically you're saying the the prime column ID cannot be null and you've tried to put in a no value
in it and you can't do that.
So this doesn't work
however.
Fortunately there is a way that we can do this in Pascua sequel and it's actually really quite simple
.
So we're going to look at that in the next video simply because it's nice to not have to remember where
in your ad Rose you are at with your users and your IDs.
For example if you have 23 million users you don't want to be remembering.
OK.
The next user is 23 million and one you'd rather just put in the user details and let postscripts deal
with finding the correct date for it.
So we're going to look into the next video just because that's something that's really popular to do
.
And if you can't do that really that's a bit limiting.
So let's look at that in the next video.
So either